{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid4882377}{\info{\title This file is a "doc" file}{\creatim\yr2006\mo9\dy18\hr10\min57}{\revtim\yr2006\mo9\dy18\hr10\min57}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords644}{\nofchars3674}{\nofcharsws4511}{\vern24577}}\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\rsidroot5520585 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid4882377\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4882377 \lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid4882377 This file is a "rtf" file\par \par SCENE I. Without the Florentine camp.\par \par Enter Second French Lord, with five or six other Soldiers in ambush\par Second Lord\par He can come no other way but by this hedge-corner.\par When you sally upon him, speak what terrible\par language you will: though you understand it not\par yourselves, no matter; for we must not seem to\par understand him, unless some one among us whom we\par must produce for an interpreter.\par First Soldier\par Good captain, let me be the interpreter.\par Second Lord\par Art not acquainted with him? knows he not thy voice?\par First Soldier\par No, sir, I warrant you.\par Second Lord\par But what linsey-woolsey hast thou to speak to us again?\par First Soldier\par E'en such as you speak to me.\par Second Lord\par He must think us some band of strangers i' the\par adversary's entertainment. Now he hath a smack of\par all neighbouring languages; therefore we must every\par one be a man of his own fancy, not to know what we\par speak one to another; so we seem to know, is to\par know straight our purpose: choughs' language,\par gabble enough, and good enough. As for you,\par interpreter, you must seem very politic. But couch,\par ho! here he comes, to beguile two hours in a sleep,\par and then to return and swear the lies he forges.\par Enter PAROLLES\par \par PAROLLES\par Ten o'clock: within these three hours 'twill be\par time enough to go home. What shall I say I have\par done? It must be a very plausive invention that\par carries it: they begin to smoke me; and disgraces\par have of late knocked too often at my door. I find\par my tongue is too foolhardy; but my heart hath the\par fear of Mars before it and of his creatures, not\par daring the reports of my tongue.\par Second Lord\par This is the first truth that e'er thine own tongue\par was guilty of.\par PAROLLES\par What the devil should move me to undertake the\par recovery of this drum, being not ignorant of the\par impossibility, and knowing I had no such purpose? I\par must give myself some hurts, and say I got them in\par exploit: yet slight ones will not carry it; they\par will say, 'Came you off with so little?' and great\par ones I dare not give. Wherefore, what's the\par instance? Tongue, I must put you into a\par butter-woman's mouth and buy myself another of\par Bajazet's mule, if you prattle me into these perils.\par Second Lord\par Is it possible he should know what he is, and be\par that he is?\par PAROLLES\par I would the cutting of my garments would serve the\par turn, or the breaking of my Spanish sword.\par Second Lord\par We cannot afford you so.\par PAROLLES\par Or the baring of my beard; and to say it was in\par stratagem.\par Second Lord\par 'Twould not do.\par PAROLLES\par Or to drown my clothes, and say I was stripped.\par Second Lord\par Hardly serve.\par PAROLLES\par Though I swore I leaped from the window of the citadel.\par Second Lord\par How deep?\par PAROLLES\par Thirty fathom.\par Second Lord\par Three great oaths would scarce make that be believed.\par PAROLLES\par I would I had any drum of the enemy's: I would swear\par I recovered it.\par Second Lord\par You shall hear one anon.\par PAROLLES\par A drum now of the enemy's,--\par Alarum within\par \par Second Lord\par Throca movousus, cargo, cargo, cargo.\par All\par Cargo, cargo, cargo, villiando par corbo, cargo.\par PAROLLES\par O, ransom, ransom! do not hide mine eyes.\par They seize and blindfold him\par \par First Soldier\par Boskos thromuldo boskos.\par PAROLLES\par I know you are the Muskos' regiment:\par And I shall lose my life for want of language;\par If there be here German, or Dane, low Dutch,\par Italian, or French, let him speak to me; I'll\par Discover that which shall undo the Florentine.\par First Soldier\par Boskos vauvado: I understand thee, and can speak\par thy tongue. Kerely bonto, sir, betake thee to thy\par faith, for seventeen poniards are at thy bosom.\par PAROLLES\par O!\par First Soldier\par O, pray, pray, pray! Manka revania dulche.\par Second Lord\par Oscorbidulchos volivorco.\par First Soldier\par The general is content to spare thee yet;\par And, hoodwink'd as thou art, will lead thee on\par To gather from thee: haply thou mayst inform\par Something to save thy life.\par PAROLLES\par O, let me live!\par And all the secrets of our camp I'll show,\par Their force, their purposes; nay, I'll speak that\par Which you will wonder at.\par First Soldier\par But wilt thou faithfully?\par PAROLLES\par If I do not, damn me.\par First Soldier\par Acordo linta.\par Come on; thou art granted space.\par Exit, with PAROLLES guarded. A short alarum within\par \par Second Lord\par Go, tell the Count Rousillon, and my brother,\par We have caught the woodcock, and will keep him muffled\par Till we do hear from them.\par Second Soldier\par Captain, I will.\par Second Lord\par A' will betray us all unto ourselves:\par Inform on that.\par Second Soldier\par So I will, sir.\par Second Lord\par Till then I'll keep him dark and safely lock'd.\par \par }}